SAP stands for System, Application and products( for data processing). It is a multinational german company. SAP/4 HANA is also the product for ERP (enterprise resouce planning) products.

SAP product can be divided in three layers - Presentation layer(users see this), Application layer( coding is one here) and Database Layer (data is stored here).

ABAP stands for Advanced business application programming.
It is the language used in backend of SAP products.

FIORI is the frontend language
the word originated from italian language meaning flowers

HANA is the database.
S/4HANA is the combination of HANA,  SAP's modern business software suite and the Fiori interface.

In S/4HANA we can perform calculations inside the database itself.
In previous version(SAP ECC) we need to go to the ABAP(Application alyer for the calculation) but in the S/4HANA calcution can be done inside database itself.

uses ABAP SQL to write SQL queries



ABAP is object oriented, that means it supports all the pillars of OOPS (Abstration, polymorphism, Inheritance, Encapsulation).

SAP GUI is used old text editor (new one is ADT(build on top of eclipse)).

In SAP GUI u can access different files either by using project manager(like eclipse or enter T-code(top right).

there are different T-codes to execute different tasks. SOme inportant ones are- 
se11 - ddic
se24 - global class crud
se37 - function builder(similar to program but it can take input(pass by valur,pass by reference) first line will be FUNCTION keyord then name
se38 - program builder(report, program)( report ask for additional info through selection screen whereas program doesnt require any additional info)
se80 - Object creation


Comment in ABAP-

if u want to make whole line as comment use *
if u want to make the text after abap statement as comment(in line comment) use "


Internal tables -

are dynamic, in-memory data structures used to hold, process, and manipulate datasets with a fixed structure while a program is running.
They function like arrays, allowing developers to handle large volumes of data temporarily before writing to the database or displaying it in a report

3 types- standard,sorted,hashed(key based).


SAmPle CODING - 

REPORT ZHELLO
WRITE HI. " output will be HI

REPORT ZHELL
DATA : internal_table TYPE TABLE OF spfli,                 (flight db table available in SE11) -write this to create a internal table with structure(columns only ) of SPLFI
       work_area LIKE LINE OF  intb.                       (work area indicate the row of internal table
       SELECT * FROM splfi INTO TALBE internal_table.      (inserting whole splfi talbe into internal table, generally WHERE  clause in used to make the time complexity of query better)
       LOOP AT internal_table INTO work_area.              (LOOP keyword is used to perform looping and the work_area will take one line from internal_talbe and perform operation over it)
          IF work_area-destination = 'DEL'.                (IF statement to write a condition to check whether the current row(work_area) destination column has DEL(delhi) in it
          WRTIE : work_area-connid, work_area-carrid.      (WRITE keyword will display the connection id and carrier id)
          ENDIF.                                           (need to end both condtional statement(IF) and loop)
          ENDLOOP.



Code pushdown (also known as code-to-data) - is a software development paradigm—primarily used in SAP ABAP for HANA—where data-intensive calculations and logic are moved
from the application server layer down to the database layer. This leverages the database's parallel processing and in-memory capabilities to significantly speed up application performance.

means directly executing operations on database layer and bring only the data that matches the condition. If we dont do this, then the Application layer bring the whole table from db and perform operation there
that is significantly slower. heavy operations such as aggregation, joins, filtering.

4 main methods to do code pushdown- 

Advanced SQL queries                  - Writing enhanced SQL queries with aggregations, grouping, and joining directly in the application code.
Core data services(CDS)               - Reusable, semantic data models defined on the database server that push logic down natively.
ABAP managed database procedure(AMDP) - Writing complex business logic and calculations directly in database languages (like SQLScript) inside ABAP classes.
HANA Information models               -  Using graphical or scripted calculation views.



CDS  -  Stand for Core data services.
        Is a framework that let user create data models at database level.
        By pushing data processing logic from the application server down to the database, CDS significantly optimizes performance.
        Also helps with code pushdown

CDS View -  by using CDS(framework) we create CDS view(object).
